Running Gradle Builds section in Gradle User Manual (#26936)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/running-builds/introduction/build_scans.adoc

// Copyright (C) 2023 Gradle, Inc.
//
// Licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.;
// you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//      https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

[[build_scans]]
= Build Scans

> A build scan is a *representation of data captured* as you run your build.

Reviewer: Can we use `metadata` instead of `data` throughout this page?

> image::gradle-basic-8.png[]

Reviewer: This image doesn't seem to relate to build scans. It still highlights the build cache block

== Build Scans
Gradle captures your build data and sends it to the link:https://scans.gradle.com/[Build Scan Service].

> The service then transforms the data into information you can use and share with others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service then transforms the data into information you can analyze and share with others.
```

image::build-scan-1.png[]

> The information that scans provide can be a big help when troubleshooting, collaborating on, or optimizing the performance of your builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information that scans collect can be an invaluable resource when troubleshooting, collaborating on, or optimizing the performance of your builds.
```

For example, with a build scan, it’s no longer necessary to copy and paste error messages or include all the details about your environment each time you want to ask a question on Stack Overflow, Slack, or the Gradle Forum.
Instead, just copy the link to your latest build scan.

image::build-scan-2.png[]

== Enable Build Scans

To enable build scans on a gradle command, add `--scan` to the command line option:

[source]
----

>  ./gradlew stageDocs --scans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ./gradlew compileJava --scans
```

`stageDocs` is a task specific to the gradle/gradle build. We should use a conventional task in the examples
